[docs] clarify update system boundaries (#43232)
expo/expo: docs/pages/eas-update/system-boundaries.mdx

---
title: System boundaries
description: Learn about the key constraints of the EAS Update system.
---

EAS Update delivers changes to your app's runtime JavaScript and update-downloaded assets (images, fonts, etc.). It does not change anything that's embedded in the signed native app binary, which includes:

- Native modules included in the binary

> - Platform entitlements and provisioning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Platform entitlements and provisioning profiles
```

- Declared system permissions
- Compiled frameworks and native code
- Background modes and OS-level capabilities
- App identity and embedded configuration (application ID, app name, URL schemes)
- Build-time resources (app icon, launch screen)

> Updates always run inside the runtime environment defined by the original binary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## JavaScript and Hermes Bytecode

Updates may be delivered as:

- JavaScript source code
- JavaScript bytecode for the [Hermes engine](https://reactnative.dev/docs/hermes)

> In both cases, the code runs inside the JavaScript engine that was compiled into the app at build time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apps may run:

- JavaScript source code
- JavaScript bytecode for the [Hermes engine](https://reactnative.dev/docs/hermes)

In both cases, the code runs inside the JavaScript engine that was compiled into the app at build time.
```

Updates do not:

- Introduce native code
- Replace the JavaScript engine
- Modify system capabilities

Hermes bytecode is simply an optimized format of JavaScript that improves startup performance. It runs within the same runtime boundaries as standard JavaScript.

## Native compatibility

Each [EAS Build](/build/introduction/) is associated with a specific native runtime. Updates must stay compatible with:

- The native modules included in the binary
- The APIs those modules expose
- The capabilities declared at build time

If you need to change native functionality, you must create a new build.

> You can use [Expo Fingerprint](/versions/latest/sdk/fingerprint) to track whether changes in your project affect the native runtime (for example, adding/removing native dependencies or changing native configuration). When the fingerprint changes, it’s a strong signal you should produce a new build rather than shipping an update.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use [Expo Fingerprint](/versions/latest/sdk/fingerprint) to track whether changes in your project affect the native runtime (for example, adding or removing native dependencies or changing native configuration). When the fingerprint changes, it's a strong signal you should create and publish a new build of your app.
```
